He went to veterinary practice.
In fact, he married a girl in his class.
Another little story.
I hope you don't mind.
No, we want the story.
They decided to get married.
They were seniors.
And this was in, like, March.
They're going to graduate in a couple months.
I said, would you, Martha, because we knew we'd have them out to dinner every now and then.
It would be real close.
Would you come out?
Would you come to our wedding?
Gosh, who was the associate pastor, not the associate pastor, but student minister, Presbyterian Student Minister, Mike?
Oh, yeah.
You know, tall Mike.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Anyway, he was the minister for the wedding.
They had the wedding in a horse lot off North Avenue.
Well, that's not all, but they started the wedding and the horse
got sick when the colic went down the side, started rolling around, we had to stop the wetting, got the horse treated.
And then Mike, he'd never been in something like this.
Here you had these horses and dogs running around, barking all the time, but they wanted to have their wetting outside.
So anyway, that student, they both went to San Angelo, practiced for a while.
They finally decided to go their own ways.
He decided to go back to school.
He got a Ph.D.
in epidemiology from the University of Houston Health Science Center.
And he did his work on Lou Gehrig's disease in Guam.
And he worked for five years at Mayo Clinic in their graduate program.
Now he's back at the University of Houston, I mean University of Texas.
So I'm proud of that.
There's some money like that I guess.
There's others I can't.
Did you remember any graduate student ever asking you to bail them out financially, lend them some money?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
I had one, one girl graduate student wanted me to loan her money to buy a car, $800.
And the more I got into it, she said, I'll pay you back, but then I checked with the, I forget who I checked with, I guess it was Bookman Peterson, don't do that because you're going to get in problems because you're going to be responsible if she does that car, so I didn't.
And she wasn't with us long anyway, so I remember that.
Nobody ever called you from jail to be bailed out or?
Seemed like one did.
I can't remember.
It's terrible.
No?
Okay.
All right, now back into the mainstream of the classes.
Yeah.
You continued teaching epidemiology.
Right, yeah.
And what else?
Epidemiology, food safety.
We developed zoonoses course, animal disease transmitted.
What was that word?
Zoonoses.
Z-O-O-N-O-S-E-S.
That's animal diseases transmitted from animals to humans, or shared, actually shared between humans and animals, lower animals.
And what year did the students take that?
Oh, for a while they taught it.
It took the third year, then it went the first year.
I'm still teaching that.
I teach part of the course now in the third year.
Now, how, when you all went to 96 and then 128 and 132?
Yeah, something like that.
How many sections did you and others have to do then to do with the whole?
Generally, two sections for a long time.
Until we got, either that or we'd be lucky enough we had them over in our 201 where the auditorium sometimes.
So they could do the whole thing?
Yeah, yeah.
In fact, I was stationed over there.
I guess the hour after I taught there is when we had one of the students streak through the classroom and upset the whole school.
Was this a veterinary student?
Did some streaking?
Yeah.
Well, describe that.
Well, I wasn't there, thank goodness, but Don Worsig teaches pharmacology, was teaching, and this kid ran through with a mask on,
for your class and he tried to go catch a student that had these wired microphones and he'd almost jerked his head off.
Anyway, the kid got away and it was hilarious.
He still talks about that.
That got around the school real quick like so.
Then we had to watch the doors.
Probably the worst thing that had happened to me was in that classroom.
Brought his anaconda with him, wrapped around him one day.
I told him, you leave.
You're not going to stay around here, that blasted snake.
So, but that's about the only thing I had.
All right.
So, larger classes.
Right.
Men and women.
Diverse in terms of race.
How were the students different in the 80s and 90s from those in the 60s?
They were more outspoken.
They were more demanding.
If you gave them the exam and they felt like some of the questions were unfair, they sure let you know very quickly.
And what was your normal response to that?
Normal response, I tell them, I'll look at them, I'll look at them.
If I felt like there's something they should know, I'd say, I'm sorry it stays.
And sometimes it would be that I'd say, well, if you look at it that way, it could be.
You could be writing and I'd give them credit for it.
But they were very, very demanding.
Now if, did you, sometimes you, did you have to do two sections of that same course?
Sometimes.
Generally I was lucky enough where I had one section, but sometimes I'd have two.
And I. And so describe the typical, how many tests?
Generally one for our credits for what I generally.
So.
And final exams, yeah.
Three tests and a final maybe.
Yeah.
All essay?
I gave essays every now and then, and at the time I got through grade, I'd go back to mobile choice.
And then the final?
Final was always a mobile choice, you know, because that time we had to get the grades in very quick.
Yeah, and so they had two or three hours or?
Generally, it was three hours in the final, yes, one hour only.
How did you avoid them having a quiz file?
I didn't.
I just keep trying to change them up.
So you changed every semester?
I tried, yeah.
Now, did you have to grade all the papers or did you have an assistant?
Had to grade them, yeah.
In terms of, still with the quality, looking at the students, in terms of their actual grades before they got to vet school, were the students making higher grades?
Yeah, definitely, yeah.
Were they more urban in their background?
More urban, yes.
As they became more diverse in gender, they became much more urban.
Did it also mean that they knew less about animals?
Yeah, definitely.
Give some examples of their naivete about.
Well, I remember one exam I put on there.
I like to try to use examples of cartoons.
The leghorn, I can't remember his name now.
It used to be a common cartoon.
Anyway, I mentioned a leghorn.
As far as examples, I'd have, let me stop and think, Bugs Bunny, Leggy Leghorn, I think is his name.
Oh gosh, the Moose.
Bullwinkle.
Bullwinkle, they have those down there.
And nobody knew what a lagerin was.
Some of them didn't know what a lagerin was.
They didn't know what a type of chicken was.
A lagerin chicken.
I still couldn't get over it.
I had several of them complain.
We never heard of a lagerin before.
They didn't know the types of chickens.
That was the most common type.
Were their career goals also different?
Yeah, they're getting much different.
They've become more, I'd say probably the majority by far, small animal, companion animal, a few equine,
or a few mixed practice and a few exotic animals.
And they switched as time goes on more and more that way, yeah.
In terms of where they did their undergraduate degree, was there much change there?
I think more and more of them came from A&M, really.
More from A&M?
I think so, yeah.
That's my impression.
This primary, I think, was a biomedical science program.
Okay.
It made it easier for me to get a pre-vet.
When you first got here, A&M and where else did they come?
A&M, of course, LSU.
Okay.
There's quite a few from, you know, places like Abilene Christian and Arlington.
Tech?
Tech, yeah.
Yeah, quite a few.
Quite a few from various places.
A few of the junior colleges.
I'm trying to think of Stephen F. Austin, a few from there.
And by the 90s, the majority of the veterinary class was female.
Did some of the guys begin to complain that they were being pushed out of the way?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure did, yeah.
We've had quite a few girls too from UT also, quite a few, a few from Rice.
All right, now let's go back and do leadership.
Dr. Price retired.
Right.
And he was in good health and all that.
He retired for age.
And do you remember the search for the new dean?
I was on the committee.
Describe that.
The search, it boiled down to, well, I had quite a few candidates.
I think J.D.
McCready is one of them again, or was at that time.
We had a fellow by the name of Don McDonald, not Don McDonald, but Donald from Ohio State.
Remember him?
George Shelton.
The associate dean at Missouri.
Yeah.
Jake Mosier, I think, from Kansas State was in there.
By the way, he's in pretty poor health right now.
Yeah.
Real great, great guy.
I'm trying to think who else.
We had McDonald.
My memory is there were eight interviewees.
Right.
Because yours truly was the chair of the committee.
Yeah, I remember.
And that was my mistake.
Yeah.
But we sent forward two names, didn't we?
Uh-huh.
I mean, George is one.
Was McDonald the other one?
Uh-huh.
Okay.
Yeah.
And, of course, George accepted, thank goodness.
Do you remember how the committee, I mean, how the faculty felt in general about the search, the process?
I thought they were fairly satisfied with it.
I didn't receive any complaints.
Looking back, nothing compared to what followed, but nothing like what followed, I mean, as far as the next search.
This is another editorial note to the typist.
As the chairman of the search committee, I went back to each of the subgroups that interviewed these eight people and asked them to rank
in their order of preference, all of these eight people.
When we tallied that, clearly McDonald and Shelton ranked far higher than any of the others.
I then went to, with the blessing of Vice President John C. Calhoun, went to Dr. Jack Williams, the President, to give him the summary.
And as I described these two, I told him that McDonald would really be exciting.
I used that word.
And he said, what do you mean?
I said some of his ideas will be goofy, but there will be something happening all the time.
There may be controversy.
The faculty may not like him part of the time, but I mean that place will be interesting and it'll be exciting.
He quickly smiled and said, tell me about the other one.
I said, well, Dr. Shelton is calm.
He's kind of low key.
Things will get better gradually, quietly.
He'll work well with the public, well with the professionals out in the field.
And things will just gradually improve.
After hearing that, he said, let's go with Dr. Shelton.
He said, I've got enough damn excitement in my life.
I don't need any more of that.
What do you think was the general reaction of the selection of Dr. Shelton?
I think it was very favorable.
A lot of people
who knew of McDonald and the particular pathology area were really scared of him.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Because one of the things I learned is apparently he literally told them they could take the job and shove it up there.
Because he had gone to Georgia at that time.
Right, yeah.
Describe Dr. Shelton coming and taking over as dean.
Yeah.
Probably when pathology, physiologists, I didn't tell you,
When I was at Oklahoma State, I mean, when I was thinking about coming here, Iowa State, a gentleman called me from the Physiology and Pharmacology Department of Oklahoma State.
That fellow's name was McDonald.
Oh.
OK.
I didn't mention that at all before.
Pardon me.
I mean, when I was on the committee.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Describe Dr. Shelton's arrival and how he started out.
How?
Very, very low key.
He came in and, uh,
It wasn't all exciting like it would have been maybe.
I remember he asked, we all were anxious of what he was going to do.
He asked to meet all department heads and he talked with them about what he wanted them to do.
I don't think he asked for any resignations at that time, but he did, he was concerned I know, at least I feel like he was, about some of the department heads and because they'd been in that position for many years and there needed to be some changes, but he was very
Very fair handed I thought when he came in and well received except some department heads were very concerned about their long tenure maybe coming to an end soon and it did, yeah.
And who did he create, was there an associate dean?
Yes, he created an associate dean and that did cause a little problems.
He brought in a fellow from Missouri, didn't he?
No, he didn't.
The associate dean was Wally Bay, I think.
Wally?
Yeah, he brought Wally Bay who became associate dean.
He did bring in Bill McCullough from Missouri was with him up there in to the school.
He brought Ray Lone down.
There was something concerned about he was bringing in the Missouri Mafia.
So from that standpoint, that was the only concern I heard expressed about who he was bringing in, yeah.
And once these people got here and things got in place?
They went pretty well.
Sure did, yeah, yeah.
Really did, yeah.
And by this time, how would you, what do you think would have been the general national
ranking that the A&M College of Veterinary Medicine would have gotten?
By the time when he came in, ranking?
Probably in the mid-range, I guess.
All right.
And he's here about 10 years.
No, no, 14 years.
14 years, yeah.
And then when he leaves,
I think we're in the top three or four.
That's just my impression.
Do you think that part of the credit for that goes back to those years?
I think so, yes.
I sure do.
What was his management style, personally?
His management style, I don't know the technical names for it, Haskell.
He was, he's one that would listen, very, very, I thought very fair, very steady, even-handed.
He may have been a little bit more tolerant, more patient than some of us would want him to be, but he didn't have a knee-jerk reaction type on the thing.
He's very, very deliberate, very,
try to be persuasive to get people to change the way they do things.
If they could, well, then he would replace them.
But he didn't do it just overnight, if that makes sense.
And did he work well out with the professional?
Yes, he did, yeah.
All across the city?
Yeah, he did.
How did you all think he related to the campus administration?
I thought he did very well.
I've never heard any problems with him.
I thought that he fared quite well.
I think that he was looked upon in my days in the 70s quite well.
Also mention his wife.
His wife is very lovely but a character.
She is a very rabid sports fan, very rabid Aggie.
She, you could see both of them at a basketball game or a football game and she'd be shouting and he'd be sitting there just calm as could be.
During the Shelton years, you were in what department?
I was in Veterinary Public Health.
Veterinary Public Health and the chairman?
Was Archie Flyers to begin with and he retired in Armand Heideball.
Take his place.
And I used the word chairman, or should I have said head?
Head.
Department head.
Head, yes.
Now, during all of these years, the process in the College of Veterinary Medicine, the department head made decisions.
Right, yeah.
And you all didn't operate as a democracy?
No, no.
Okay.
It's a dictatorship.
And when did you make full professor?
Do you remember?
In 75, I think.
75, all right.
So you've been?
Yeah, I think.
I think so, yeah.
So you've been a department head for 25 years.
I mean a professor, yeah.
I mean a professor.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think 75.
And you continued to become active in the AVMA.
Right.
When did you decide you wanted to become a national officer?
I don't think I ever did.
Really, it goes back to George Shelton.
They were having some problems, apparently, communicating.
They asked the College of Veterinary Medicine with the Texas Veterinary Medical Association.
And Worley Bay came to me one day and asked me, would you run for vice president of the TVMA?
TVMA has three vice presidents, third, second, first, and then president-elect president.
And they more or less go up the chain.
And I told him, no, no way.
He came back and I found out later, of course, George was behind it.
I said, well, would you just consider trying it?
I said, well, there's no way I could win.
And meantime, I found out a friend of mine who I knew very well, former student, they graduated about 70, was running that position too.
I said, sure, I'll run.
Knowing there's no way in hell I'm going to win, I probably shouldn't say that, but I'm going to win.
I don't know what happened, but I won.
And therefore, I was on the track to go ahead.
And so I went through up the chairs and became president, what have you.
And then we have, in the AVMA, we have what we call an executive board, an executive board by districts, three states, Texas, Louisiana, and Arkansas.
Al Hopkins was stepping down from his executive board.
I mean, he'd been there for a six-year term.
He'd run for president-elect.
and of AVMA, and anyway, just thought I should be, should run for that position.
I did and won, and after I went through that, and as chairman of the executive board, I decided I didn't want to run.
Well, I got word, but you know, Texas wants another president, so George was gone then, I mean, by that time.
The current dean says, no, I don't want you to run.
I said, fine.
Well, I soon got word that the TVMA got word to her administration here.
Anyway, the dean came to me and said, well, I've changed my mind.
So I ran.
I told Martha, you know, that's three years out of her life if they want me to run out well.
So it's a matter of George started it all.
And one president at AVMA, I called him and said, can I quit now?
So.
And you served, when was it?
94, 93, 94 as president.
Right.
And you and how many of your classmates from Missouri?
One other, Gerald Johnson.
Yeah.
He was nine, he was two years before me.
And so two out of a class of how many?
Twenty, twenty-six, yeah.
Two.
Okay.
And that's, I think that's the only classmates that have been to the president.
This is another editorial note.
At about this time,
member of the governing board at the University of Missouri, who is the primary owner of the Adams Mark Hotels nationwide,
Wise got very cynical at a board meeting of the University of Missouri System and he said that veterinarians were nothing but a bunch of poodle groomers.
Why in the world would we waste money on such a useless program as that?
And I went up to him to try to tell him that we had
We had these two people, plus we had a Miss America, Debbie Turner, who had come out of the vet school, and in the long run, his flagrant use of bad judgment was one of the best things that ever happened to the College of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Missouri.
because every veterinarian in the state got very energetic and exercised and he heard a heck of a lot about.
And as a result of that, the vet school became stronger than it ever had been.
Describe the duties of being president of the AVMA.
President of the AVMA, you're the spokesperson for them.
You're not only the executive board, but you
You carry the word out to all the constituents as well as possible.
What's going on, it's a two-way street.
Try to find out what needs to be done by the association.
At that time, there were 60,000 members.
About 85% of the veterinarians in this country are members of AVMA, which is about twice the percentage of the AMA physicians, which is kind of surprising.
Twice the percentage of professionals or members?
Yeah, about 40, 45 percent last I heard of physicians, MDs or members of the American Medical Association.
We got about 85 percent.
So it is well represented in the profession.
But the duties of the president is to be the spokesperson.
And we went to 48 states and about eight foreign countries to speak their meetings.
Which two states did you know?
Did not make Vermont nor Alaska.
They changed the meeting date of when Alaska and I, it was August and June, they changed to September.
My term goes from July to July and so I missed it because the,
Did you have any lobbying, any federal?
Yes, yes.
What were some of the?
We, at that time, we were trying to get past a, we, AVMA had introduced a law, pardon me, a bill to make it legal for veterinarians to
utilize extra label drugs.
Extra label?
Extra label.
In other words, the only, according to the law, the only drugs could be used, medications could be used on animals were those for which they were licensed and labeled for.
For example, if you had something licensed for use on a dog, or say for a cow,
For respiratory disease you can use that same drug for gastrointestinal disease nor could you use it on sheep or something else even though they're very similar.
So we call this MDUCA.
It's really to allow veterinarians to use their professional judgment to use licensed drugs for other animal species on different animal species and that includes human drugs because many of them are tested on animals like dogs and you can use those drugs in on animals.
So we had to get a bill introduced to Congress.
We had to get that bill passed.
So I spent most of my time, or a lot of my time during that year in Washington, D.C.
We had one very good sponsor in this House of Representatives, Charlie Stenholm, and he was, I really have the greatest respect for that guy.
He would come off the floor to talk to us when we'd be there.
He would lean the word backwards trying to listen to us, and he was very supportive.
And it did pass.
It did pass.
It passed.
We worked on it for a year.
It cost a little over a million dollars.
My main and a half time was all done just to get everything done.
I got to say a lot of the... Where did the opposition come from?
Primarily, people didn't want it to change.
And I guess our main opposition was Henry Waxman in the House.
And we thought for a while it was Ted Kennedy in the Senate, but we had a what we call a congressional fellow who was working on his staff, and he finally convinced Ted Kennedy that was a good thing.
So it was a matter of people had the idea, well, you're going to have more drug residues than animals because you're using these drugs that hadn't been approved of those animals.
The veteran has to use his judgment.
And if you look at it, there'd be more healthy animals going to slaughter than there would be sick animals.
Because if you get to treat them, you're going to send them to slaughter, the farmers or the ranchers.
So it's a matter of just not understanding what it was all about.
Now I'm assuming that the most difficult part of that task was simply the days and hours demanded.
Right, it was.
What were some of the other difficulties you had to...
to deal with that you know you mean for that drug issue or no no no and being president oh uh there was always something uh for example one of the the feed companies dog food companies came out with a a coupon on the box sack whatever the container was that if they take this to the veterinarian they'll get a five dollar discount on their veterinary fee well there's no
agreement with that type of thing at all.
And I got hit with that when I was in New Jersey.
I remember going to New Jersey meeting and saying, what's this stuff about us having to honor these coupons?
That type of thing.
That was one thing.
I'm trying to think of other things.
One of the things I was doing when I wasn't doing that, invariably when you go, I remember I had to go to Louisville and you'd have to go to TV stations, the radio stations to be interviewed and one thing I was pushing was responsible pet ownership.
particularly around Christmas time, so don't just buy a pet because it looks cute, that dog in the window syndrome.
You must, first of all, check with a veterinarian or somebody who knows how big that dog's going to be, what kind of housing he must have, what kind of care he must have.
You don't need a Labrador if you've got an apartment, this type of thing.
So that was one of the things I was doing.
I remember I went to an interview in Louisville, Kentucky, the TV station there, and I sat outside.
You generally like to talk to people ahead of time, but I didn't talk to anybody.
They just called me in about five minutes before they went live.
I said, we just want to talk to you a little bit, and I had this lady at the far end, the man in the center, and I'm sitting there.
She says, what's DVM?
What's that mean?
I said, that means doctor of veterinary medicine.
Is that a veterinarian?
Yeah, what do you do?
What's a veterinarian do?
And by that time, they said, you're on.
So that was kind of a traumatic way to begin a show when the lady there didn't know what a veterinarian was or what kind of education you had.
You asked also what kind of education you had to do that.
And I was trying to educate her as well as give my message about responsible pet ownership across.
So those kind of things you run into.
On the other hand, what were some of the joyful moments?
Joyful moments.
Oh, gosh.
Well, wherever you went, you appreciate that in academia or wherever you go, you meet people, friends in the profession.
But most of all, I guess, meet Aggies regardless of where I went.
I remember we went to Maine Union, New Hampshire, Concord, New Hampshire, and we had to fly into Boston.
The snow was up, you know, about three feet deep.
We had to drive, almost break a trail to get there.
Little small motel where they had the meeting, about just a few minutes before the meeting time we got there.
And by the way, we had flown from Kansas City, but that's the last time we saw Jerry Johnson that day, and I kind of remember it that way.
But anyway, I got this meeting, and I said, there's not going to be anybody here.
A few people came in, and this one student, one fellow came in, and it was one of our Aggies.
He'd gone in the service, he met a girl up there, he married, and he stayed there.
And gosh, I remembered him.
That type of thing was great, but gosh where he went.
I was meeting in France, and this one lady came up and put her arms around me and hugged me.
It was one of the former students.
She got married, moved to France, practicing over there, and she hadn't seen anybody from A&M for years.
Just things like that, that was nice things.
Did you get to meet any true celebrities?
Yeah, a few.
Gosh, what's his name?
The fellow that takes care of the animals in the zoo at Columbusville.
Oh, that's St.
Louis?
Yeah.
Used to have the TV program?
When I was president, we have our convention, we have our big program.
Well, he was there to show some of his animals, and I got to talk with him, and I led the chimpanzee at one hand,
And then he put it over my arms, and I held his chimpanzee.
What's his name?